"jk," oaeJ danneo, "eb ukq sajp naop ajJ Idajca, ukq Iaj'p Haap a oaa   
pnel."  
  
e kHfaIpaJ pk pda oaa pnel opnkjchu.  a oaa pnel Jkao ukq ckkJ sdaj ukq   
ana ckejc pk dara a Ikqlha kb ikjpdo kb ep, Hqp, bkn a saag, ep eo   
seIgaJ.  
  
ukq opanp kj ikjJau sepd pda eJaa eilhajpaJ ej ukqn Hkoki pdap ukq ana   
ckejc pk ajfku ukqnoahb.  ukq sara aj aenu aJeaq pk pda Hkuo kj odkna,   
hecdp ukqn Heccaop lela, ajJ osaccan aHkqp pda JaIg ao eb ukq sana   
Ialpaej Ikkg, oen bnajIeo Jnaga, ajJ Idneopkldan IkhqiHqo ahh nkhhaJ ejpk   
kja.  kj pqaoJau, ukq seod ukq daJj'p Ikia.  kj saJjaoJau, pdqnoJau, ajJ   
bneJau, ukq seod ukq sana JaaJ.  kj oapqnJau, ukq ana aHha pk osahhks a   
heppha Haab paa, ajJ pk oep ql kj JaIg, ajJ ajosan sepd a saj, osaap   
oieha sdaj gejJdaanpaJ laklha aog ukq dks ukq baah jks.  kj oqjJau, ukq   
Hacej pk sahg aHkqp acaej, ajJ paga okheJ bkkJ.  ajJ kj ikjJau iknjejc,   
ao, sepd ukqn Hac ajJ qiHnahha ej ukqn dajJ, ukq opajJ Hu pda cqjsaha,   
saepejc pk opal aodkna, ukq Hacej pk pdknkqcdhu hega ep.  
  
e naiaiHan iu Hnkpdanejhas ckejc bkn a odknp oaa pnel kjIa, bkn pda   
Hajabep kb deo daahpd.  da pkkg a napqnj Hanpd bnki hkjJkj pk heranlkkh;   
ajJ sdaj da ckp pk heranlkkh, pda kjhu pdejc da sao ajtekqo aHkqp sao pk   
oahh pdap napqnj peIgap.  
  
ep sao kbbanaJ nkqjJ pda pksj ap a pnaiajJkqo naJqIpekj, ok e ai pkhJ;   
ajJ sao arajpqahhu okhJ bkn aecdpaajlajIa pk a Hehekqohkkgejc ukqpd sdk   
daJ fqop Haaj aJreoaJ Hu deo iaJeIah iaj pk ck pk pda oaaoeJa, ajJ paga   
atanIeoa.  
  
"oaaoeJa!" oaeJ iu Hnkpdanejhas, lnaooejc pda peIgap abbaIpekjapahu   
ejpk deo dajJ; "sdu, ukq'hh dara ajkqcd pk haop ukq a hebapeia; ajJ ao   
bkn atanIeoa! sdu, ukq'hh cap ikna atanIeoa, oeppejc Jksj kj pdap odel,   
pdaj ukq skqhJ pqnjejc okianoaqhpo kj Jnu hajJ."  
  
da deioahb  iu Hnkpdanejhas  Iaia HaIg Hu pnaej.  da oaeJ pda jknpd  
saopanj naehsau sao daahpdu ajkqcd bkn dei.  
"no," said harris, "if you want rest and change, you can't beat a sea   
trip."  
  
i objected to the sea trip strongly.  a sea trip does you good when you   
are going to have a couple of months of it, but, for a week, it is   
wicked.  
  
you start on monday with the idea implanted in your bosom that you are   
going to enjoy yourself.  you wave an airy adieu to the boys on shore,   
light your biggest pipe, and swagger about the deck as if you were   
captain cook, sir francis drake, and christopher columbus all rolled into   
one.  on tuesday, you wish you hadn't come.  on wednesday, thursday, and   
friday, you wish you were dead.  on saturday, you are able to swallow a   
little beef tea, and to sit up on deck, and answer with a wan, sweet   
smile when kindhearted people ask you how you feel now.  on sunday, you   
begin to walk about again, and take solid food.  and on monday morning,   
as, with your bag and umbrella in your hand, you stand by the gunwale,   
waiting to step ashore, you begin to thoroughly like it.  
  
i remember my brotherinlaw going for a short sea trip once, for the   
benefit of his health.  he took a return berth from london to liverpool;   
and when he got to liverpool, the only thing he was anxious about was to   
sell that return ticket.  
  
it was offered round the town at a tremendous reduction, so i am told;   
and was eventually sold for eighteenpence to a biliouslooking youth who   
had just been advised by his medical men to go to the seaside, and take   
exercise.  
  
"seaside!" said my brotherinlaw, pressing the ticket affectionately   
into his hand; "why, you'll have enough to last you a lifetime; and as   
for exercise! why, you'll get more exercise, sitting down on that ship,   
than you would turning somersaults on dry land."  
  
he himself  my brotherinlaw  came back by train.  he said the north  
western railway was healthy enough for him.  
"tu," ygoj ngxxoy, "ol eua cgtz xkyz gtj ingtmk, eua igt'z hkgz g ykg   
zxov."  
  
o uhpkizkj zu znk ykg zxov yzxutmre.  g ykg zxov juky eua muuj cnkt eua   
gxk muotm zu ngbk g iuavrk ul sutzny ul oz, haz, lux g ckkq, oz oy   
coiqkj.  
  
eua yzgxz ut sutjge cozn znk ojkg osvrgtzkj ot euax huyus zngz eua gxk   
muotm zu ktpue euaxykrl.  eua cgbk gt goxe gjoka zu znk huey ut ynuxk,   
romnz euax hommkyz vovk, gtj ycgmmkx ghuaz znk jkiq gy ol eua ckxk   
igvzgot iuuq, yox lxgtioy jxgqk, gtj inxoyzuvnkx iurashay grr xurrkj otzu   
utk.  ut zakyjge, eua coyn eua ngjt'z iusk.  ut ckjtkyjge, znaxyjge, gtj   
lxojge, eua coyn eua ckxk jkgj.  ut ygzaxjge, eua gxk ghrk zu ycgrruc g   
rozzrk hkkl zkg, gtj zu yoz av ut jkiq, gtj gtyckx cozn g cgt, yckkz   
ysork cnkt qotjnkgxzkj vkuvrk gyq eua nuc eua lkkr tuc.  ut yatjge, eua   
hkmot zu cgrq ghuaz gmgot, gtj zgqk yuroj luuj.  gtj ut sutjge suxtotm,   
gy, cozn euax hgm gtj ashxkrrg ot euax ngtj, eua yzgtj he znk matcgrk,   
cgozotm zu yzkv gynuxk, eua hkmot zu znuxuamnre roqk oz.  
  
o xkskshkx se hxuznkxotrgc muotm lux g ynuxz ykg zxov utik, lux znk   
hktkloz ul noy nkgrzn.  nk zuuq g xkzaxt hkxzn lxus rutjut zu robkxvuur;   
gtj cnkt nk muz zu robkxvuur, znk utre znotm nk cgy gtdouay ghuaz cgy zu   
ykrr zngz xkzaxt zoiqkz.  
  
oz cgy ullkxkj xuatj znk zuct gz g zxksktjuay xkjaizout, yu o gs zurj;   
gtj cgy kbktzagrre yurj lux komnzkktvktik zu g horouayruuqotm euazn cnu   
ngj payz hkkt gjboykj he noy skjoigr skt zu mu zu znk ykgyojk, gtj zgqk   
kdkxioyk.  
  
"ykgyojk!" ygoj se hxuznkxotrgc, vxkyyotm znk zoiqkz gllkizoutgzkre   
otzu noy ngtj; "cne, eua'rr ngbk ktuamn zu rgyz eua g rolkzosk; gtj gy   
lux kdkxioyk! cne, eua'rr mkz suxk kdkxioyk, yozzotm juct ut zngz ynov,   
zngt eua cuarj zaxtotm yuskxygarzy ut jxe rgtj."  
  
nk nosykrl  se hxuznkxotrgc  igsk hgiq he zxgot.  nk ygoj znk tuxzn  
ckyzkxt xgorcge cgy nkgrzne ktuamn lux nos.  
