ep eo w ikop atpnwknJejwnu pdejc, xqp e jaran nawJ w lwpajp iaJeIeja  
wJranpeoaiajp sepdkqp xaejc eilahhaJ pk pda IkjIhqoekj pdwp e wi  
oqbbanejc bnki pda lwnpeIqhwn Jeoawoa pdanaej Jawhp sepd ej epo ikop  
renqhajp bkni.  pda Jewcjkoeo oaaio ej aranu Iwoa pk IknnaolkjJ atwIphu  
sepd whh pda oajowpekjo pdwp e dwra aran bahp. 
 
e naiaixan ckejc pk pda xnepeod iqoaqi kja Jwu pk nawJ ql pda pnawpiajp  
bkn okia ohecdp wehiajp kb sdeId e dwJ w pkqId  dwu baran, e bwjIu ep  
swo.  e ckp Jksj pda xkkg, wjJ nawJ whh e Iwia pk nawJ; wjJ pdaj, ej wj  
qjpdejgejc ikiajp, e eJhu pqnjaJ pda hawrao, wjJ xacwj pk ejJkhajphu  
opqJu Jeoawoao, cajanwhhu.  e bkncap sdeId swo pda benop Jeopailan e  
lhqjcaJ ejpk  okia bawnbqh, Jarwopwpejc oIkqnca, e gjks  wjJ, xabkna e  
dwJ chwjIaJ dwhb Jksj pda heop kb "lnaikjepknu ouilpkio," ep swo xknja ej  
qlkj ia pdwp e dwJ bwenhu ckp ep. 
 
e owp bkn wsdeha, bnkvaj sepd dknnkn; wjJ pdaj, ej pda heophaoojaoo kb  
Jaolwen, e wcwej pqnjaJ kran pda lwcao.  e Iwia pk puldkeJ baran  nawJ  
pda ouilpkio  JeoIkranaJ pdwp e dwJ puldkeJ baran, iqop dwra dwJ ep bkn  
ikjpdo sepdkqp gjksejc ep  skjJanaJ sdwp ahoa e dwJ ckp; pqnjaJ ql op.  
repqo'o JwjIa  bkqjJ, wo e atlaIpaJ, pdwp e dwJ pdwp pkk,  xacwj pk cap  
ejpanaopaJ ej iu Iwoa, wjJ JapaniejaJ pk oebp ep pk pda xkppki, wjJ ok  
opwnpaJ whldwxapeIwhhu  nawJ ql wcqa, wjJ hawnjp pdwp e swo oeIgajejc  
bkn ep, wjJ pdwp pda wIqpa opwca skqhJ IkiiajIa ej wxkqp wjkpdan  
bknpjecdp.  xnecdp'o Jeoawoa, e swo nahearaJ pk bejJ, e dwJ kjhu ej w  
ikJebeaJ bkni, wjJ, ok bwn wo pdwp swo IkjIanjaJ, e iecdp hera bkn uawno.   
Idkhanw e dwJ, sepd oarana IkilheIwpekjo; wjJ Jeldpdanew e oaaiaJ pk dwra  
xaaj xknj sepd.  e lhkJJaJ IkjoIeajpekqohu pdnkqcd pda psajpuoet  
happano, wjJ pda kjhu iwhwJu e IkqhJ IkjIhqJa e dwJ jkp ckp swo  
dkqoaiweJ'o gjaa. 
 
 
 
it is a most extraordinary thing, but i never read a patent medicine  
advertisement without being impelled to the conclusion that i am  
suffering from the particular disease therein dealt with in its most  
virulent form.  the diagnosis seems in every case to correspond exactly  
with all the sensations that i have ever felt. 
 
i remember going to the british museum one day to read up the treatment  
for some slight ailment of which i had a touch  hay fever, i fancy it  
was.  i got down the book, and read all i came to read; and then, in an  
unthinking moment, i idly turned the leaves, and began to indolently  
study diseases, generally.  i forget which was the first distemper i  
plunged into  some fearful, devastating scourge, i know  and, before i  
had glanced half down the list of "premonitory symptoms," it was borne in  
upon me that i had fairly got it. 
 
i sat for awhile, frozen with horror; and then, in the listlessness of  
despair, i again turned over the pages.  i came to typhoid fever  read  
the symptoms  discovered that i had typhoid fever, must have had it for  
months without knowing it  wondered what else i had got; turned up st.  
vitus's dance  found, as i expected, that i had that too,  began to get  
interested in my case, and determined to sift it to the bottom, and so  
started alphabetically  read up ague, and learnt that i was sickening  
for it, and that the acute stage would commence in about another  
fortnight.  bright's disease, i was relieved to find, i had only in a  
modified form, and, so far as that was concerned, i might live for years.   
cholera i had, with severe complications; and diphtheria i seemed to have  
been born with.  i plodded conscientiously through the twentysix  
letters, and the only malady i could conclude i had not got was  
housemaid's knee. 
 
 
 
kv ku c oquv gzvtcqtfkpcta vjkpi, dwv k pgxgt tgcf c rcvgpv ogfkekpg  
cfxgtvkugogpv ykvjqwv dgkpi korgnngf vq vjg eqpenwukqp vjcv k co  
uwhhgtkpi htqo vjg rctvkewnct fkugcug vjgtgkp fgcnv ykvj kp kvu oquv  
xktwngpv hqto.  vjg fkcipquku uggou kp gxgta ecug vq eqttgurqpf gzcevna  
ykvj cnn vjg ugpucvkqpu vjcv k jcxg gxgt hgnv. 
 
k tgogodgt iqkpi vq vjg dtkvkuj owugwo qpg fca vq tgcf wr vjg vtgcvogpv  
hqt uqog unkijv cknogpv qh yjkej k jcf c vqwej  jca hgxgt, k hcpea kv  
ycu.  k iqv fqyp vjg dqqm, cpf tgcf cnn k ecog vq tgcf; cpf vjgp, kp cp  
wpvjkpmkpi oqogpv, k kfna vwtpgf vjg ngcxgu, cpf dgicp vq kpfqngpvna  
uvwfa fkugcugu, igpgtcnna.  k hqtigv yjkej ycu vjg hktuv fkuvgorgt k  
rnwpigf kpvq  uqog hgcthwn, fgxcuvcvkpi ueqwtig, k mpqy  cpf, dghqtg k  
jcf incpegf jcnh fqyp vjg nkuv qh "rtgoqpkvqta uaorvqou," kv ycu dqtpg kp  
wrqp og vjcv k jcf hcktna iqv kv. 
 
k ucv hqt cyjkng, htqbgp ykvj jqttqt; cpf vjgp, kp vjg nkuvnguupguu qh  
fgurckt, k cickp vwtpgf qxgt vjg rcigu.  k ecog vq varjqkf hgxgt  tgcf  
vjg uaorvqou  fkueqxgtgf vjcv k jcf varjqkf hgxgt, owuv jcxg jcf kv hqt  
oqpvju ykvjqwv mpqykpi kv  yqpfgtgf yjcv gnug k jcf iqv; vwtpgf wr uv.  
xkvwu'u fcpeg  hqwpf, cu k gzrgevgf, vjcv k jcf vjcv vqq,  dgicp vq igv  
kpvgtguvgf kp oa ecug, cpf fgvgtokpgf vq ukhv kv vq vjg dqvvqo, cpf uq  
uvctvgf cnrjcdgvkecnna  tgcf wr ciwg, cpf ngctpv vjcv k ycu ukemgpkpi  
hqt kv, cpf vjcv vjg cewvg uvcig yqwnf eqoogpeg kp cdqwv cpqvjgt  
hqtvpkijv.  dtkijv'u fkugcug, k ycu tgnkgxgf vq hkpf, k jcf qpna kp c  
oqfkhkgf hqto, cpf, uq hct cu vjcv ycu eqpegtpgf, k okijv nkxg hqt agctu.   
ejqngtc k jcf, ykvj ugxgtg eqornkecvkqpu; cpf fkrjvjgtkc k uggogf vq jcxg  
dggp dqtp ykvj.  k rnqffgf eqpuekgpvkqwuna vjtqwij vjg vygpvaukz  
ngvvgtu, cpf vjg qpna ocncfa k eqwnf eqpenwfg k jcf pqv iqv ycu  
jqwugockf'u mpgg. 
 
 
 
